W-16543932 Terminology and wording cleanup (#650)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: mule-gateway/modules/ROOT/pages/mule-gateway-capabilities-mule4.adoc

endif::[]
:page-aliases: api-manager::api-gateway-capabilities-mule4.adoc

Mule runtime engine includes an embedded Mule Gateway. Mule Gateway enables you to add a dedicated orchestration layer on top of your backend APIs and services to help you separate orchestration from implementation. You can leverage the governance capabilities of API Manager to apply, among other capabilities, throttling, security, caching, and logging to your APIs.

> Using Mule Gateway, you can, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, using Mule Gateway you can:
```

==== WSDL API

An API that you create using a WSDL Exchange asset. Your Mule Gateway assumes that the associated Mule application being tracked by API Manager has an HTTP or HTTPS listener with a WSDL router defined as an implementation endpoint.

*Typical usage*: WSDL based APIs.

=== API Autodiscovery

> API Autodiscovery allows API Manager to manage an API that represents an HTTP endpoint of a Mule application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API Autodiscovery enables API Manager to manage an API that represents an HTTP endpoint of a Mule application.
```

allow -> enable

Per style guide

Essentially, it's the mechanism that links an HTTP resource to its API definition in API Manager.

> Through API Autodiscovery, Mule Gateway can sync the configuration defined in the corresponding paired API from API Manager. For Autodiscovery to work, Mule runtime requires Anypoint Platform organization credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through API Autodiscovery, Mule Gateway syncs the configuration defined in the corresponding paired API from API Manager. Mule runtime requires Anypoint Platform organization credentials to use Autodiscovery.
```

See the xref:api-manager::api-auto-discovery-new-concept.adoc[API Autodiscovery] article for more information.

=== API Proxy

API proxies, also known as "autogenerated proxies", enhance the usability of API Manager in your Mule application.

*Typical usage*: Either when you want to leverage Mule Gateway capabilities and your backend API is not based on Mule Runtime, or when your API is based on Mule runtime but you are unable to define the corresponding Autodiscovery element because it is a closed code.

image::api-gateway-capabilities-mule4-62bf9.png[align=center]

> When you configure your API to be a Proxy Endpoint, Anypoint Platform allows you to download a preconfigured Mule application. If the application is deployed to Mule runtime and you use the correct Anypoint Platform credentials, the API for the application is automatically tracked by API Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you configure your API to be a Proxy Endpoint, Anypoint Platform enables you to download a preconfigured Mule application. If the application is deployed to Mule runtime and you use the correct Anypoint Platform credentials, API Manager automatically tracks the API.
```

API Autodiscovery allows API Manager to manage an API that represents an HTTP endpoint of a Mule application. +
Essentially, it's the mechanism that links an HTTP resource to its API definition in API Manager.

> Through API Autodiscovery, Mule Gateway can sync the configuration defined in the corresponding paired API from API Manager. For Autodiscovery to work, Mule Runtime requires Anypoint Platform organization credentials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Through API Autodiscovery, Mule Gateway can sync the configuration defined in the corresponding paired API from API Manager. For Autodiscovery to work, Mule runtime requires Anypoint Platform organization credentials.
```

Reviewer 2: this change is needed ☝️

== Enabling Mule Gateway capabilities

> To take advantage of Mule Gateway capabilities, you need to establish a communication channel between Mule runtime and an organization created in a particular plane (ie. US control plane, EU control plane) or Mule Private Cloud Edition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To take advantage of Mule Gateway capabilities, you need to establish a communication channel between Mule runtime and an organization created in a control plane (US or EU) or Mule Private Cloud Edition.
```

Reviewer 2: we don't believe we allow "i.e." 
I recommend fixing this one.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we look favorably on "you need to" anymore. See here and else where.

> To configure Mule runtime in such a way, you need to specify your Anypoint organization credentials. +

Reviewer 2: Those plusses at the end of a line of a paragraph (not in ordered or unordered list) drive me crazy bc the paragraph can look really weird and non-standard. 

word word word word. 
word word word word word word word word.

instead of

Reviewer 2: word word word word. 

word word word word word word word word.

or 

word word word word. word word word word word word word word.

== Enabling Mule Gateway capabilities

> To take advantage of Mule Gateway capabilities, you establish a communication channel between Mule runtime and an organization created in a control plane (US or EU) or Mule Private Cloud Edition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To take advantage of Mule Gateway capabilities, establish a communication channel between Mule runtime and an organization created in a control plane (US or EU) or Mule Private Cloud Edition.
```
